README.md, before:

# Go Transaction Cache

**txncache** pkg helps reuse Fetch value of multiple keys during a single request handling.

## Use Case

during a request handling one might need to get value for a given key from a remote resource e.g redis, api, database etc. All such keys might not be available in the starting of the request so one might end up calling the Fetch function multiple times for the same key if keys are repeated. Provided one might process a request in parallel, it's possible to even fetch value of the same key not just multiple times but also at the same time as well, hence simple caching won't be enough here.

txncache is the abstraction to make sure we do not fetch the value of the same key more than once and at the same time use the efficient caching layer for handling multiple such keys with repeated occurrence among multiple goroutines.

## Usage

Key should implement the interface -
```go
type Key interface {
	Id() string
}
``` 
this helps identify repeated key basic it returned id

Value can be anything -
```go
type Value interface{}
```

Either a *Fetch* or *MultiFetch* function or both should be provided.
Fetch function should follow the signature, this function returns value for a single input key -
```go
type Fetch func(Key) Value
```

It's good to have a *MultiFetch* function which should have following signature. If *MultiFetch* is not provided, Fetch 
will be used to create a MultiFetch function on the go.
```go
type MultiFetch func([]Key) map[Key]Value
```

Following example showcase the use case where multiple goroutines tries to fetch values of multiple keys at once,
the keys are overlapping as well.

```go
func main() {
	cache, _ := txncache.NewCache(context.Background(), GetValue, GetMultiValue, 10)
	var wg sync.WaitGroup

	wg.Add(1)
	go func() {
		defer wg.Done()

		keys := make([]txncache.Key, 0)
		keys = append(keys, ZKey("k1"))
		keys = append(keys, ZKey("k2"))
		keys = append(keys, ZKey("k1"))

		cache.MultiGet(keys)
	}()

	wg.Add(1)
	go func() {
		defer wg.Done()

		keys := make([]txncache.Key, 0)
		keys = append(keys, ZKey("k2"))
		keys = append(keys, ZKey("k3"))
		keys = append(keys, ZKey("k2"))

		cache.MultiGet(keys)
	}()
	wg.Wait()
	// k1, k2, k3 will be fetched only once
}

func GetValue(key txncache.Key) txncache.Value {
	fmt.Println("key fetch ", key)
	return fmt.Sprintf("val#%v", key)
}

func GetMultiValue(keys []txncache.Key) map[txncache.Key]txncache.Value {
	res := make(map[txncache.Key]txncache.Value)
	for _, key := range keys {
		fmt.Println("key fetch ", key)
		res[key] = fmt.Sprintf("v#%v", key)
	}
	return res
}

type ZKey string

func (k ZKey) Id() string {
	return string(k)
}
```

For robust example checkout the test file.

Commit message:

Enhancements - 1) handling potential deadlock if MultiFetch function do not give response for all the keys. 2) Functionality to take cache dump. 3) Preload cache with boot up key id - value pairs. 4) Cache explicit clean up and clean up with context.

README.md, after:

# Go Transaction Cache

**txncache** pkg helps reuse Fetch value of multiple keys during a single request handling.

## Use Case

during a request handling one might need to get value for a given key from a remote resource e.g redis, api, database etc. All such keys might not be available in the starting of the request so one might end up calling the Fetch function multiple times for the same key if keys are repeated. Provided one might process a request in parallel, it's possible to even fetch value of the same key not just multiple times but also at the same time as well, hence simple caching won't be enough here.

txncache is the abstraction to make sure we do not fetch the value of the same key more than once and at the same time use the efficient caching layer for handling multiple such keys with repeated occurrence among multiple goroutines.

## Usage

Key should implement the interface -
```go
type Key interface {
	Id() string
}
``` 
this helps identify repeated key basic it returned id

Value can be anything -
```go
type Value interface{}
```

Either a *Fetch* or *MultiFetch* function or both should be provided.
Fetch function should follow the signature, this function returns value for a single input key -
```go
type Fetch func(Key) Value
```

It's good to have a *MultiFetch* function which should have following signature. If *MultiFetch* is not provided, Fetch 
will be used to create a MultiFetch function on the go.
```go
type MultiFetch func([]Key) map[Key]Value
```

Following example showcase the use case where multiple goroutines tries to fetch values of multiple keys at once,
the keys are overlapping as well.

```go
func main() {
	cache, _ := txncache.NewCache(GetValue, GetMultiValue, 10)
	var wg sync.WaitGroup

	wg.Add(1)
	go func() {
		defer wg.Done()

		keys := make([]txncache.Key, 0)
		keys = append(keys, ZKey("k1"))
		keys = append(keys, ZKey("k2"))
		keys = append(keys, ZKey("k1"))

		cache.MultiGet(keys)
	}()

	wg.Add(1)
	go func() {
		defer wg.Done()

		keys := make([]txncache.Key, 0)
		keys = append(keys, ZKey("k2"))
		keys = append(keys, ZKey("k3"))
		keys = append(keys, ZKey("k2"))

		cache.MultiGet(keys)
	}()
	wg.Wait()
	// k1, k2, k3 will be fetched only once
}

func GetValue(key txncache.Key) txncache.Value {
	fmt.Println("key fetch ", key)
	return fmt.Sprintf("val#%v", key)
}

func GetMultiValue(keys []txncache.Key) map[txncache.Key]txncache.Value {
	res := make(map[txncache.Key]txncache.Value)
	for _, key := range keys {
		fmt.Println("key fetch ", key)
		res[key] = fmt.Sprintf("v#%v", key)
	}
	return res
}

type ZKey string

func (k ZKey) Id() string {
	return string(k)
}
```

For robust example checkout the test file.

## Dump & Pre Loading
One might need to reuse the current cache store in the next transaction as well. So **GetAll()** can be used to take
the dump of current cache storage. Client can store it somewhere and case use it later to preload.
**Preload(map[string]Value)** preload a cache with given key id and value map and do not call fetch function for those keys

## Default Value
Ideally the *Fetch* & *MultiFetch* function should return value for all the provided keys. However if the implementation 
does not guarantee that, one should provide a default value to be used as return value of such keys. This is compulsory to
avoid deadlock situation while waiting for these keys.

## Cache cleanup
Cache should be closed post usage to avoid leaks, Close up can be done explicitly by calling **Close()** function or
can be closed along with ctx cancellation by using **CloseWithCtx(context.Context)** function.
